# Recruitemnet-Management-System
The recruitment system allows the job seekers to view the job opportunity through Advertisement and helps to apply for the job. The organization shortlist the applicants for the interview. The shortlisted applicants undergo through a process of Test and Interview. The HR department selects the Applicant based on the performance in the Test and Interview. Finally the recruited applicants are informed. This system makes the task of the job seeker easier rather than waiting in queue for enrollment. This also reduces the time consumption for both for the job seeker and organization. In e-recruitment the employer has the chance to hire the right person for the right job after studying the job description and the specification to point out re-quired categories. Edwin B Filippo defined recruitment as, “The process of searching for prospective employee and stimulating them to apply for jobs in the organization.” Online recruitment is a major factor for hiring and selecting pro-cess it gives for the company assurance to reach its target successfully. This project discusses the recruitment as a key of success in the whole process of hiring in the Human Resources Department. It has several functions for main-taining a superior outcome and providing effective human capital for the organi-zation. The online recruitment is necessary tool for the recruitment process. It has several forms such as websites, recruitment agency, and web-portals. However, the e-recruitment effectiveness has been proved by many studies on the Human Resources Department, Human Resources Managers, HR specialist and applicant. This will lead into a major development in the Human Resources Department’s activities, performance and outcomes.  In this system admin have many control over the system like they can add and edit job and also they can open/closed job when they want. In this system admin have to deal with four stages. Initial stage for applicant is resume verification where the applicant -form reside after applying job.In resume verification stage, they will check whether he/she fullfills their job requirement or not. based on that they take action(approve, reject) over applicant based on his/her perfor-mance/correctness after taking action on particular applicant-form.it goes into the next stage automatically which is aptitude stage and applicant also get noti-fied through mail/Mobileno and this process will repeat for other stages.in this system   when people applied for job they need to crack four stages but it de-pends on company how many stages they defined for hiring.in this case there are four stages like(Resume verification, aptitude Round,Group discussion,HR Round) all these round will be conducted through virtual platform it also depend on company. admin can also see all applicant and their stages  with its ac-tion(approve,reject) on centeralised placed no need to navigate in each stages.In the last stage applicant will receive offer E-letter generated by the system 
